Connect to Kafka PL/PSC service from TiDB Cloud (#19323)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/setup-self-hosted-kafka-private-link-service.md

node.id=3
controller.quorum.voters=1@{broker-node1-ip}:29092,2@{broker-node2-ip}:29092,3@{broker-node3-ip}:29092
listeners=INTERNAL://0.0.0.0:9092,CONTROLLER://0.0.0.0:29092,EXTERNAL://0.0.0.0:39092
inter.broker.listener.name=INTERNAL
advertised.listeners=INTERNAL://{broker-node3-ip}:9092,EXTERNAL://b3.usw2-az3.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9095
controller.listener.names=CONTROLLER
listener.security.protocol.map=INTERNAL:PLAINTEXT,CONTROLLER:PLAINTEXT,EXTERNAL:PLAINTEXT,SSL:SSL,SASL_PLAINTEXT:SASL_PLAINTEXT,SASL_SSL:SASL_SSL
log.dirs=./data
```

**2.4.3 Start Kafka brokers**

Create a script, and then execute it to start the Kafka broker in each broker node.

```shell
#!/bin/bash

# Get the directory of the current script
SCRIPT_DIR="$(cd "$(dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}")" && pwd)"
# Set JAVA_HOME to the Java installation within the script directory
export JAVA_HOME="$SCRIPT_DIR/jdk-22.0.2"
# Define the vars
KAFKA_DIR="$SCRIPT_DIR/kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin"
KAFKA_STORAGE_CMD=$KAFKA_DIR/kafka-storage.sh
KAFKA_START_CMD=$KAFKA_DIR/kafka-server-start.sh
KAFKA_DATA_DIR=$SCRIPT_DIR/data
KAFKA_LOG_DIR=$SCRIPT_DIR/log
KAFKA_CONFIG_DIR=$SCRIPT_DIR/config

> # Cleanup step which makes it easy for multiple experiments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Cleanup step, which makes it easy for multiple experiments
```

# Magic id: BRl69zcmTFmiPaoaANybiw, you can use your own
$KAFKA_STORAGE_CMD format -t "BRl69zcmTFmiPaoaANybiw" -c "$KAFKA_CONFIG_DIR/server.properties" > $KAFKA_LOG_DIR/server_format.log   
LOG_DIR=$KAFKA_LOG_DIR nohup $KAFKA_START_CMD "$KAFKA_CONFIG_DIR/server.properties" &
```

**2.5. Test the cluster setting in the bastion node**

1. Test the Kafka bootstrap.

    ```shell
    export JAVA_HOME=/home/ec2-user/jdk-22.0.2

    # Bootstrap from INTERNAL listener
    ./kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin/kafka-broker-api-versions.sh --bootstrap-server {one_of_broker_ip}:9092 | grep 9092
    # Expected output (the actual order might be different)
    {broker-node1-ip}:9092 (id: 1 rack: null) -> (
    {broker-node2-ip}:9092 (id: 2 rack: null) -> (
    {broker-node3-ip}:9092 (id: 3 rack: null) -> (

    # Bootstrap from EXTERNAL listener
    ./kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin/kafka-broker-api-versions.sh --bootstrap-server {one_of_broker_ip}:39092
    # Expected output for the last 3 lines (the actual order might be different)
    # The difference in the output from "bootstrap from INTERNAL listener" is that exceptions or errors might occur because advertised listeners cannot be resolved in Kafka VPC.

>     # We will make them resolvable in TiDB Cloud side and make it route to the right broker. 

Author: ```suggestion
    # We will make them resolvable in TiDB Cloud side and make it route to the right broker when you create a changefeed connect to this Kafka cluster by Private Link. 
```

    ```properties
    # brokers in usw2-az1

    # Add EXTERNAL listener
    listeners=INTERNAL:...,EXTERNAL://0.0.0.0:39092

    # Add EXTERNAL advertised listeners based on the "Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern" in "Prerequisites" section
    # 1. The pattern for AZ(ID: usw2-az1) is "<broker_id>.usw2-az1.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:<port>"
    # 2. So the EXTERNAL can be "b1.usw2-az1.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9093", replace <broker_id> with "b" prefix plus "node.id" properties, replace <port> with a unique port(9093) in EXTERNAL advertised listener ports range 
    advertised.listeners=...,EXTERNAL://b1.usw2-az1.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9093

    # Configure EXTERNAL map
    listener.security.protocol.map=...,EXTERNAL:PLAINTEXT
    ```
 
    ```properties
    # brokers in usw2-az2

    # Add EXTERNAL listener
    listeners=INTERNAL:...,EXTERNAL://0.0.0.0:39092

    # Add EXTERNAL advertised listeners based on the "Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern" in "Prerequisites" section
    # 1. The pattern for AZ(ID: usw2-az2) is "<broker_id>.usw2-az2.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:<port>"

>     # 2. So the EXTERNAL can be "b2.usw2-az2.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9094", replace <broker_id> with "b" prefix plus "node.id" properties, replace <port> with a unique port(9094) in EXTERNAL advertised listener ports range 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # 2. So the EXTERNAL can be "b2.usw2-az2.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9094". Replace <broker_id> with "b" prefix plus "node.id" properties, replace <port> with a unique port(9094) in EXTERNAL advertised listener ports range 
```

    advertised.listeners=...,EXTERNAL://b2.usw2-az2.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9094

    # Configure EXTERNAL map
    listener.security.protocol.map=...,EXTERNAL:PLAINTEXT
    ```

    ```properties
    # brokers in usw2-az3

    # Add EXTERNAL listener
    listeners=INTERNAL:...,EXTERNAL://0.0.0.0:39092

    # Add EXTERNAL advertised listeners based on the "Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern" in "Prerequisites" section
    # 1. The pattern for AZ(ID: usw2-az3) is "<broker_id>.usw2-az3.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:<port>"

>     # 2. So the EXTERNAL can be "b2.usw2-az3.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9095", replace <broker_id> with "b" prefix plus "node.id" properties, replace <port> with a unique port(9095) in EXTERNAL advertised listener ports range 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # 2. So the EXTERNAL can be "b2.usw2-az3.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9095". Replace <broker_id> with "b" prefix plus "node.id" properties, and replace <port> with a unique port(9095) in EXTERNAL advertised listener ports range.
```

    advertised.listeners=...,EXTERNAL://b3.usw2-az3.abc.us-west-2.aws.3199015.tidbcloud.com:9095

    # Configure EXTERNAL map
    listener.security.protocol.map=...,EXTERNAL:PLAINTEXT
    ```

3. After you reconfigure all the brokers, restart your Kafka brokers one by one.

#### 2. Test EXTERNAL listener settings in your internal network

You can download the Kafka and OpenJDK in you Kafka client node.

```shell
# Download Kafka and OpenJDK, and then extract the files. You can choose the binary version based on your preference.
wget https://downloads.apache.org/kafka/3.7.1/kafka_2.13-3.7.1.tgz
tar -zxf kafka_2.13-3.7.1.tgz
wget https://download.java.net/java/GA/jdk22.0.2/c9ecb94cd31b495da20a27d4581645e8/9/GPL/openjdk-22.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
tar -zxf openjdk-22.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
```

Execute the following script to test if the bootstrap works as expected.

```shell
export JAVA_HOME=/home/ec2-user/jdk-22.0.2

# Bootstrap from the EXTERNAL listener
./kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin/kafka-broker-api-versions.sh --bootstrap-server {one_of_broker_ip}:39092

# Expected output for the last 3 lines (the actual order might be different)

> # There will be some exceptions or errors since advertised listeners can not be resolved in your Kafka network. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# There will be some exceptions or errors becasue advertised listeners cannot be resolved in your Kafka network. 
```

> # We will make them resolvable in TiDB Cloud side and make it route to the right broker. 

Author: ```suggestion
# We will make them resolvable in TiDB Cloud side and make it route to the right broker when you create a changefeed connect to this Kafka cluster by Private Link. 
```

        - `usw2-az2` with `broker-usw2-az2 subnet`
        - `usw2-az3` with `broker-usw2-az3 subnet`
    - **Security groups**: create a new security group with the following rules.
        - Inbound rule allows all TCP from Kafka VPC: Type - `All TCP`; Source - `Anywhere-IPv4`
        - Outbound rule allows all TCP to Kafka VPC: Type - `All TCP`; Destination - `Anywhere-IPv4`
    - Listeners and routing:
        - Protocol: `TCP`; Port: `9092`; Forward to: `bootstrap-target-group`
        - Protocol: `TCP`; Port: `9093`; Forward to: `broker-target-group-1`
        - Protocol: `TCP`; Port: `9094`; Forward to: `broker-target-group-2`
        - Protocol: `TCP`; Port: `9095`; Forward to: `broker-target-group-3`

3. Test the load balancer in the bastion node. This example only tests the Kafka bootstrap. Because the load balancer is listening on the Kafka EXTERNAL listener, the addresses of EXTERNAL advertised listeners can not be resolved in the bastion node. Note down the `kafka-lb` DNS name from the load balancer detail page, for example `kafka-lb-77405fa57191adcb.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com`. Execute the script in the bastion node.

    ```shell

>     # Please replace {lb_dns_name} to the actual value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Replace {lb_dns_name} to your actual value
```

2. When you proceed to **Configure the changefeed target > Connectivity Method > Private Link**, fill in the following fields with corresponding values and other fields as needed.

    - **Kafka Type**: `3 AZs`. Ensure that your Kafka cluster is deployed in the same three AZs.
    - **Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern**: `abc`. It is the same as the unique random string you use to generate **Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern** in [Prerequistes](#prerequisites).
    - **Endpoint Service Name**: the Kafka service name.
    - **Bootstrap Ports**: `9092`. A single port is sufficient because you configure a dedicated bootstrap target group behind it.

3. Proceed with the steps in [Sink to Apache Kafka](/tidb-cloud/changefeed-sink-to-apache-kafka.md).

Now you have successfully finished the task.

## FAQ

### How to connect to the same Kafka Private Link service from two different TiDB Cloud projects?

If you have already followed this document to successfully set up the connection from the first project, you can connect to the same Kafka Private Link service from the second project as follows:

1. Follow instructions from the beginning of this document. 

> 2. When you proceed to [Step 2. Set up a Kafka cluster](#step-2-set-up-a-kafka-cluster), follow [Reconfigure a running Kafka cluster](#reconfigure-a-running-kafka-cluster) to create another group of EXTERNAL listeners and advertised listeners. You can name it as **EXTERNAL2**. Note that the port range of **EXTERNAL2** cannot overlap with the **EXTERNAL**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. When you proceed to [Step 1. Set up a Kafka cluster](#step-1-set-up-a-kafka-cluster), follow [Reconfigure a running Kafka cluster](#reconfigure-a-running-kafka-cluster) to create another group of EXTERNAL listeners and advertised listeners. You can name it as **EXTERNAL2**. Note that the port range of **EXTERNAL2** cannot overlap with the **EXTERNAL**.
```
